cool man how are you I'm doing well how
are you um I am
well actually I mean well I I just had a
I just finished a really bad stream but
I think in general
I'm actually really stressed for the
last like four and a half weeks I've had
on average about a hundred to one
hundred and ten hour work weeks so it's
it's been it's been pretty sick I think
on average I was on air like 12 to 14
hours a day and at some points upwards
to 18 like either casting or streaming
so it really took its toll on my mental
health
[Music]
okay let's go weird a question so I
think the ad is still running for some
people oh god okay it's running for 30
more seconds that's so long maybe we
should stop doing that but yeah why um
so lck is the Korean League of Legends
regional tournament the you know the
Korean region there's four casters two
color commentators and to play by plays
and the other color commentator still
doesn't have his visa okay and so not to
lower the the quality of the broadcast
and whatnot I'm the only color
commentator so I was having to do five
day work weeks okay so five day work
weeks I have to be in there by 3:00 p.m.
and then I wasn't getting out on average
until about midnight and then I would go
home or I wouldn't go home I actually
got a hotel near the studio is like one
minute walking distance and I'd go back
to the hotel and then I would either
live view le c which is the european
regional tournament or i would power a
nap and then stream the North American
regional why
um so coach streaming for North America
is a new thing it just started this
season the first time like ever in the
history that streamers are allowed to Co
stream it
it's the most successful thing that my
streams ever have so I think it's pretty
silly if I don't do it it's two days a
week the EU one I actually stopped doing
this past week as a means to try to
better manage my mental health I guess
so I don't do it this this last week
what what effect does does 110 hour work
weeks have on you um so I think the
first week was actually pretty pretty
okay I I managed the first week pretty
fine the second week was a lot more
stressful because the Korean the Korean
League right now is it's uh I don't know
how to like talk about it without
sounding really negative it's just not
it's not doing very well
not not in terms of like viewership or
anything like that the overall level of
play is not what people would expect and
then the games are what I think a lot of
people would call very boring
they're like average 35 plus minutes to
40 minutes very dull meta state meta
being like what champions keep popping
up and whatnot
lots of series are going all the way to
three games and so that extends the
broadcast makes it go a lot longer so I
think by week two that's when I started
really stressing out and I started
having bouts of insomnia again which
I've had on and off like the last couple
of years and I was starting to get a lot
of anxiety on the broadcast and I was
feeling sick without actually being sick
like body aches and fatigue and all this
other stuff I ended up going to a clinic
for it I got like a cold like a banana
bag or something like the the lack of my
grandson
yeah yeah ended up getting like a banana
bag I did like a spa thing to try to
help de-stress and everything then the
coronavirus started popping up it's very
prevalent right now in South Korea
so that started adding stressors and I
don't know
110 hour work weeks we're not healthy
this past week I I cut back the European
live viewing and I also missed one of
the North American ones because I woke
up to do it and then I just thought to
myself like there's no way I can turn
the stream on I'm not in a good mental
state there's no way I'll be okay and I
just went back to sleep and I just
rested and and I did the next two casts
and now here we are this is the night
after this is actually my first off day
okay and you're spending yeah awake in
the middle of the night so let's let's
try to make this worth your here you
know let's try to make it work in a
while and make sure we're not
contributing to the problem so Ellis
what's your recollection of our last
conversation like what do you what did
you remember about it or takeaways I
ended up thinking a lot more about my
childhood and adolescence in general and
I remember thinking that the session or
just the the talk that we had in general
was it was very relieving I guess while
it was happening and also afterwards I
thought about a lot of stuff for several
days following and then literally
shortly thereafter that's when the work
weeks started sure so I just I sort of
dome it into everything else there I all
I remember is just going down memory
lane of my life talking about various
stuff I remember talking about like the
meditation stuff I remember talking
about just my thought processes
how I arrived at certain conclusions
stuff like that no I I I dwelled on that
more and more but I feel like ever since
that session so where we're at now I've
been constantly on without basically any
down time so I think there's a lot going
on in my life right now as well as in my
mental state that I am trying or that I
will process and filter once the noise
stops yeah yeah so I have a lot of
questions for you but I also have some
general thoughts what would you like to
start with if you think the questions
would help you with your general
thoughts then that would probably be
better okay let me just think about that
so sometimes LS I have a problem where I
talk to someone for five minutes and I
feel like I have a clear sense of what's
going on and then I feel like I should
ask more questions because I really do
want to know more stuff but I'm inclined
to actually just talk to you a little
bit about my impressions of what I'm
hearing yeah and okay so Alice here's
what I think one of your one of your
challenges is I think you are in crap
you have an incredibly strong willpower
and I think your capacity to take parts
of yourself that are busted or cracking
under pressure your your capacity to
keep going in spite of signals from your
mind and your body that you need to slow
down is actually really really high and
I think what that does is puts you in
situations where like you just start you
know stuff just starts with kind of
falling apart
yeah and and I think you know we saw
this a little bit so my recollection of
our last talk was we certainly went down
memory lane but we also talked a lot
about sort of how one can look at
depression and that you struggled with
depression for a long time and I had the
sense that your depression was a couple
of things one is that it's anger turned
against the self
is so psychologically like when you're
when you're learning to be a therapist
that's one of the theories that you kind
of think about which is that depression
is a manifestation of anger that's
directed towards you and I think part of
the part of the way that you view
yourself is actually like really really
beneficial so when you're hard on
yourself and you push yourself you're
seeing the highest numbers that you see
on stream you're casting in the Korean
League you know you're doing so much
because you really like you push
yourself really hard and I'm curious a
lot about you know a lot of things that
you've said about you know you managed
week one well you're stressing out you
kind of talked about stressing and
distressing and spa day and insomnia I'm
really curious about how much
frustration loathing or anger do you
have towards yourself in all of this
stuff because you are working 110 hour
work weeks and I'm curious if there's a
voice inside you that says you should be
able to handle this better there's there
was definitely many points I remember
talking to my producer she's really good
she's like she's really good at being
someone that I can talk to she's like my
boss and then there's someone that's
above her but she she runs the global
production for the cast and I remember
talking with her about feeling very lost
and what I was doing and feeling very
paranoid and sort of confused at myself
like the in-between broadcasts or prior
to a broadcast starting I think I talked
with her on two or three different
occasions about this stuff there were
definitely some points where I'd leave a
cast and I was actually really angry
because I thought like my mental
fortitude wasn't strong enough to have a
good cast or I thought what the am
i doing like what how what am I actually
just going through and it became a
battle of yes just pushing myself
through and if you remember the last
talk I think that a lot of it is like
fear the motivator of not just fear in
the traditional sense of how people
think but fear of missing out
yes Oh suddenly I would start viewing
well if I miss this stream I miss out on
potentially all of this or then I would
start having anxiety about what if I end
up losing out on certain viewers or
people that get ticked off because
there's a lot of other people
coach trimming too and so it gets into
this really weird mental state where
it's like I become afraid to miss days
due to expectation and then I get lots
of messages on Twitter or DMS or discord
messages where am I or am i doing the
coach stream etc and then I get very
anxious about letting that stuff down
but sometimes I I just like I just want
everything to stop I just want all the
noise to stop and this has happened a
lot in the last few weeks but it feels
like obvious like I I can't and I feel
like I feel like I'm at the gym sort of
I like the equivalency when when your
body wants to give up on an exercise
that you're doing but you know that it
at the very end it's probably better if
you go through with it without obviously
hurting yourself and so I keep I I
feel like I keep trying to trick myself
into thinking that everything's okay but
all that I'm seeing is at the end of the
road like what what happens when we
complete spring and summer and how is my
stream gonna actually gotta push through
right yeah that's literally that's
literally it's got it I think like so
I'm halfway done with the lck where
we're uh we're halfway done now starting
next week and then there's offseason so
there's a two-month break and I was
planning about or I was actually
planning to go back to the States for
like a month or two and just stop
everything because I've just been on too
much the last few months and now the
coronavirus thing I have no idea what's
gonna happen with travel regulations and
all this other stuff so it's another
headache and I'm like ah that's
gonna happen with Kuroda
everyone's asking yeah and then uh it
sucks so that's what I got thinking
about but I view these really big breaks
that are coming so April May or end of
April May is a big break and then
there's another break before worlds
typically there's like one one and a
half one free and then obviously post
world's there's a big offseason so I
feel like these are just milestones that
I have to hit sort of like reps or
something mm-hmm yeah so I completely
understand that that's how you feel
about things and I think you made a
really interesting caveat when it comes
to the gym you said it's really
important to push through provided you
don't hurt yourself
yes and I think your problem is that is
what I guess well not knowing whether or
not it's gonna hurt myself right or I
don't know I don't know man stressing
out insomnia anxiety going body aches
going to the clinic and getting a banana
bag you know what a banana bag is
basically um it's a lot of like well I
mean you said electrolytes and stuffs a
lot of minerals and stuff that the body
needs nutrients yes you know do you know
why most people don't get banana bags
most people are lacking all those things
or they're yeah do you know why most
people aren't lacking those things
they're living a normal healthy work we
all know so let's pause for a second
let's just understand this very clearly
okay okay a lot of people live unhealthy
lives
okay right like a lot of people don't
eat healthy that's like yeah and like
and they don't need banana bags people
who need banana bags are people who are
severely dehydrated and like people who
like a good example of people who get
banana bags or people who have severe
alcoholism and don't do anything except
for drink alcohol they get all their
calories from alcohol they don't they
like literally like people who get
banana bags or people who do not eat
food and do not drink water or other
kinds of things okay so like how's your
food bin I'm actually eating really well
but I actually gained weight
so amidst all of this through the stress
I've actually gained weight because I've
been stressed eating
yep so what about freaking fluids I
actually drink quite a lot at riot
there's a lot of well the drinks suck
but there's a lot of stuff for the
talent next okay so okay I probably yeah
how often do you go through a lot of
water bottles tea etc how often do you
urinate I would say several times a day
what color is your hair it's yeah it's
pretty it's either
almost see-through or very light yellow
okay so I know and I notice hydrate yeah
okay there's problems yeah so I mean I'm
like what are you so I just wanted to
make sure that you know medically or
even though I don't dispense medical
advice over the over the internet just
want to make sure that you're really not
in a situation where there's something
that could be going on yeah so it sounds
like you're actually eating and drinking
okay yeah I want to kind of so let me
just stop for a second so I think LS
there a couple things we can talk about
today one is that we can dig into what
stressing out means what anxiety is what
insomnia is I think we can also talk a
little bit about psychosomatic and what
that term means I think though that so
we can talk about each of those things
and that's sort of like standard stuff
right like stress anxiety all insomnia
the other thing though is that I think
at the root of this is that you have
this fear or you have something that
drives you
and the thing is that driver is like a
taskmaster with a whip and like you
don't need a banana bag unless like
you're like you whipped yourself into
exhaustion yeah and and so I think going
forward you know if you want like this
is not a sustainable solution like
working 110 hour weeks for months at a
time and then taking a month or two off
and then working another like 110 hour
week for you know a couple months at a
time and then taking another month off
and then you also have to remember that
like during your month off like you're
not gonna be you're not another person
you're actually still LS so like during
that month off you're still gonna have
lots of thoughts about like missed
opportunities and should you be doing
this yes and so like it's not even gonna
be a month off like do you see that like
the month off is just an illusion
because you're still gonna be you during
those times yeah I'm always connected
I'm always lined in and it when I'm not
lined in I feel anxious yep so it's like
are you either you take a step back and
then you have to deal with your
crippling anxieties you like force
yourself to relax right because it's
like that's just a weird paradox you
know yeah it's like anxiety provoking
relaxation is like an oxymoron and but
because that's who you are so I think
what we've really got to change is you
man like this is not a good plan and we
have to we have to really dig into or I
feel you know this we have to dig into
what it is that drives you like who's
the taskmaster and why do you have to do
all these things why do you have to why
do you have to push yourself clearly
past your breaking points and and the
challenge here is that you're so
resilient that you like how can I say
this yeah I mean you're just so
resilient that you like have gotten used
to pushing yourself past the like a good
limit like you're at the gym but you
just you injure yourself every time you
work out because you've just gotten used
to injuries and like that's gotta stop
dudes like you know yeah I don't know
I guess I don't know what to say in that
regard
mostly I think a lot of that I think I
think we touched on it briefly last time
we talked where I feel like I'm
cognizant that where I am right now in
the eSports community or the scene is a
very ridiculously fortunate position the
position that I'm in but I see how
quickly things change in this industry
and how quickly just everything gets
completely thrown around and whatnot and
I feel like due to the way that I got
here as well as how I stay within the
community right now it feels like III
can't afford to turn off and it creates
this really weird loop where at the same
time I think I mentioned this to you
last time that after eSports or
something I don't know what I do yet and
so that's a that's another scary
question I just entered into a mid-20s
but that's kind of old and eSports if
you don't have anything else going for
you or going on and I feel like there's
a lot of expectations on me I feel like
there's a lot of people that want to see
me fail and so that you know in a way
that's it is the thing so what's up what
that is well a lot well so I don't know
how much you know about my persona or
whatever from League pretty
controversial yeah I think that most
people either love or hate me I think
there's no gray area I think that the
way that I eye
the way that I talk in league setting
maybe you don't get it here or something
because we're not in a league setting or
something
it's very agitated of people pisses
people off I don't know
so anyways really what do you say that
pisses people off I don't know how to
okay so okay I can know I know I don't
know how to describe this myself
I agree so anger is a really interesting
word you asked me last time if I get
angry I don't yeah so I use anger as a
way to describe it but I don't think
that's the emotion that I'm actually
feeling what is the feeling okay if I
think about this can I think it's sort
of education it's like a vacation yes
can I guess yeah god is it
ridiculous what is is that lays it like
a sense of ridiculous
yes well yeah sure yeah just that's not
good this is ridiculous
um is that what it feels like I yeah
yeah so it
I feel constantly on defense pretty much
no matter what and I think that because
of how much time I commit into the game
whether by working or spending time on
it or spending time on others that are
like around me like pro players or
people that are like living with me that
are trying to get careers or do certain
things in the game I feel like the
amount of commitment and time I spend
into it anything about the game almost
ends up becoming personal because of how
deep I am I don't know if that makes
sense
yeah I'm trying to make sense of it and
so I take things really personal and I
was having a conversation with someone
the other day actually in I think
actually I was gonna ask you like if you
saw someone go on television and you saw
someone state something that was clearly
untrue and you have a way of showing
that it's untrue but but it's very
difficult yes like the earth is flat
yeah like you've got messy oh that I use
lately yes yes yes so like it's much
ridiculous right so if you can show
someone the earth isn't flat but you
can't do it verbally there there's no
way to get people to concede verbally
right if you're confronted with a flat
earther and you try to explain to them
the way that certain things work they
either will or won't accept it but if
they come from the standpoint that
you're already wrong it feels like
there's nothing you can say verbally
that can ever convince them sure and in
order to convince them you need to
physically show it in some way but if
you can never get the physical part it's
like a barrier that I just I
can't I yeah Jesus Christ I just wanna
bash my head against the wall
and then due to the nature of analysis
in video games or strategy games or RTS
is shrouded against realtime strategy
verbal talks become extremely
frustrating and angering especially if
things are taken out of context or all
this other stuff so it becomes it
becomes very stressful and when I deal
with certain arguments or confrontations
and stuff I don't think that I handle
them the best that I could especially in
the moment especially if what I'm
hearing I think is nonsense and then as
a byproduct of that it feels like by
standards will only see me get angry
right where they'll see me get impatient
and frustrated and then I feel like it
has a negative recourse on me why so it
is lesson to this um I'm sorry you were
saying it led you to a point the less
sounded like you were
yeah actually offering an important
conclusion yeah so the the the so it's
led me to a point where I basically only
want to interact with certain people
within the community but I don't think
that's healthy because I want to
progress thinking within the game in the
community
I want to progress the way that people
see strategy things and everything
because I've been playing games all my
life started at you know H 2 & 3 and
then competitively I've been involved in
eSports since age 12 so if you know I'm
going on two decades okay and it's my
whole life okay so that I oh yeah okay
okay hold on okay
I'm gonna need a minute okay you're just
sharing so much that I think is actually
really like everything you say is laden
with importance and has been reflected
upon and I think everything the problem
that I'm having is that like I can't I
don't know you're giving me a thousand
roads to walk down I think all of what
you're good yeah I know yeah it sucks I
feel I'm actually nervous even saying
what I'm saying right now why people say
well I don't know last video we did
obviously I I would call it success like
you know got a lot of viewership on
YouTube etc I think that there's a lot
of people again in the league community
that will take what I'm saying right now
is egotistical or overly arrogant or
thinking that I'm always right or
something like that and it has nothing
to do with that and it just totally
please and I don't know I don't know
what to describe it as it's a very
awkward thing when I have to
I I choose to live in a glass house
because I feel like it's my only defense
what I mean by that is like III I'm
always basically on air or I'm always
open to the public I've opened ESI
defends you against lies or lies
fabrications from whom oh Jesus
anyone really I guess it's just uh it's
something I develop or I started doing
years ago eSports is a pretty weird
industry I think that lies fabrications
half-truths etc can spread very a lot
and then word of mouth is way too strong
and things can be taken on a context way
too easily especially clips for instance
I mean you might know about that from
twitch like you see a clip on a context
doesn't really tell you the whole story
and people can misconstrue certain
things and I feel like that's very
frustrating and then I get frustrated
because I'm open to talking to literally
anyone at any time
and
I don't know we've gone a lot of places
right now you go ahead yes I'm sorry no
I'm glad you're sharing so much so let's
just start with where we ended off OLS
okay let's just think for a second okay
yep can I get water really quick yeah go
for it okay okay all right thanks I'll
be one side of all of the things you can
do get water is at the top of the list
so I know that twitch app thinks that
Mitch Jones is the rain boss I feel like
LS is the right boss man okay yeah okay
hey so being misunderstood being
misunderstood really bothers you
yeah yeah and and so if we think a
little hold on a second hello
what
okay I was just informed that there's an
ad running right now because you went to
go get Walker look Jackson okay which is
great because I need some time to think
okay oh man it's so much okay let me
just take notes okay okay I can do this
okay I can do this
okay so first of all you remember the
last time like so one of the big things
that I remembered about last time was
that I felt like you needed more you
needed to experience more anger like we
talked last time about how you
essentially blamed yourself for all
kinds of bad things that happen around
you instead of being angry with other
people yeah okay so my general sense I'm
gonna use this phrase bursting at the
seams okay yeah and what I what I what
I'm getting from you LS is that you're
basically bursting at the seams I think
you have a lot of stuff that's going on
inside of you that doesn't have a way to
get out and so you're like bursting at
the seams and there's like leakage so my
sense is that you have a lot of
suppression and this is why it like it
feels so
overwhelming and multifactorial because
it's like it's like firing on like it's
so many different directions there's
insomnia there's physical problems
there's anger there's uncertainty about
your future there's a community that's
hating you there's some kind of weird
defenses that you set up for yourself a
community that loves you there's
expectation there's you know like like
strike while the iron is hot and right
now it's the gold rush and you're going
to California because that's where the
gold is and like eSports and like soon
it's all gonna be over there's just so
much yeah like just listening to you is
overwhelming like I can't even imagine
what living and in your life is like
like it's like you can't catch a break
anywhere and I think that that's that's
something we've got to just figure out
because that's just not I mean you're
you're screwed my friend if you continue
doing what you're doing and and going at
this pace oddly enough you may be very
successful but I think you're gonna pay
for that success and I do believe that
you can continue to be successful
without bursting at the seams so let's
start with this you don't like being
misunderstood you're talking to flat
earthers and they don't they don't
understand you can't show them and you
just want them you want them to
understand you want them to understand
your viewpoint you want them to
understand like what you're saying you
want like you want you want to be like
on the same team with them you don't
want to be oppositional with them
there's some amount of frustration
there's some amount of inability to show
them and then the other thing that I
think go for it now or I want them to
show me why the whatever it is that I'm
trying to say against their Flat Earth
is actually wrong fine right that isn't
just a versa I can get runs deeper so
that the other thing I said that this
rolls into your identity so I want you
to understand this very clearly okay so
I'm getting the sense that you can't
separate an argument from you like it
becomes about you yes right it's not
about like convincing like it's not it's
not sterile it's not it's not like
scientific it's not mathematical it's
like investment and who you are as a
person like there's your rolled up into
this does that make sense you're
invested yes yeah I think that that goes
to what I was saying about how deep I am
in eSports and yep
I also won't and I well I won't say I
will but I think often times I won't
even engage in a conversation if I don't
actually feel comfortable talking about
it I don't know if there's like a word
for that or phrase did you get what I
mean like you're avoidant unless you're
comfortable unless I feel comfortable
and competent in the material yeah so I
think this comes back to like you're
you're terrified of being misjudged yes
where does that work from I mean I I
would imagine it obviously stems from
something in childhood yeah we've talked
about four at the same time I don't know
if it really does okay
and the reason that I say I don't know
if it really does is because I think the
way that I thought of myself as a
preteen and a dazzle as an adolescence
was the opposite of what like teachers
and therapists and psychiatrists
psychologists success have thought of me
they thought better of me that I thought
of myself and so I guess that's a
misjudged thing but I don't
I don't know okay so so I'm gonna just
toss a Hail Mary okay so first of all
things aren't as simple as I make them
out to be okay so I think complicated
the first thing is as I'm hearing you
talk the thing that that I is actually
that you had some behavioral problems
right am i mixing you up with someone
else behavioral problems in what sense
like did you get in trouble at school I
was true and forced to drop out of high
school yeah
and so my education effectively it
stopped in like seventh grade
effectively yeah eighth grade so last
time we met we talked about
okay so what are you as he mentioned
that what are you feeling what as you
mentioned the truancy and what happened
to you and um I don't really mind it I
remember thinking that I wasn't gonna
use school or edu for anything and I
remember thinking in like ninth grade
tenth grade etc I would just wait for my
class to finish so that I could get the
that I could take the GED test because I
thought the material on the GED was
really simple but there's the law that
you have to wait for your graduating
class or you can take the test but you
have to wait for them to receive the
diploma something like that I don't know
I didn't want to go to school because I
didn't feel safe or comfortable at
school not because like anything like in
particular just a lot of things I guess
I was true in all the time I don't feel
anything in particular
I guess so I'm trying to figure out
maybe this isn't related but you know
there was a powerful story that you told
last time about you know when you were
like going through the truancy hearing
or something like that there one of the
teachers kind of like stopped and was
like no one is asking everyone's talking
about punishing him yeah but no one is
asking like why is he doing the things
that he does yeah is there anything
about that sentiment about being
misjudged judged by people held
accountable for things that are that
aren't your fault
that translates to today I
I would yeah I guess I would I would say
so
because I felt like I felt like speaking
the foreign language no one understood
me and it felt like people around me
that didn't understand me didn't make
any efforts to try to understand and
that was a very frustrating thing sort
of like what we're talking about right
now where it's like this is
ridiculous like why don't these why
don't these things these this context
why doesn't any of this matter to you
because it should all matter and yet for
some on hilarious and it doesn't
um and it just it doesn't make sense to
me who my whole thing is I try to run
through so many scenarios and things in
my head and I don't understand why other
people don't do the same or they don't
even attempt to understand yeah so I
mean I think the ridiculous is
kind of a good sentiment and and there's
also something let's a kind of like flat
earther ish about this to me you know
where it's sort of like people just
really do not try to understand it it's
just and so I'm not sure if I'm if it's
too loose of an association but
something at one well I I guess I would
ask you what like so to add some context
some of the stuff that I come out with
in the league scene right that has led
to a lot of controversy is imagined
because I don't know what games you play
imagine that everything is the way that
it is and then you come along and say no
this stuff's wrong I can show that it's
wrong but then a lot of people will
outwardly just dismiss it so maybe an
analogy I can make here is like in
science if it is they just talk about
League
okay so in in in league there's a lot of
concepts that I guess RT so
interestingly enough I I've had lots of
conversations with RTS players and they
they accept it a lot better than mobile
players do and it's the most
brain blasting thing in the world it
blows my mind
so in league of legends there will be
instances in pro play where there is no
objective on the map right there's do
you play league sure or no okay I
understand now I'll play dota ok
you play dota okay so is there neutral
objectives in DotA yeah like big things
okay so imagine there's very neutral
objective yeah sure like Baron great
yeah so imagine there's no neutral up
right and that means that there's
nothing to really contest or standing
gold on turrets can be about 500 right
500 is about two and a half million
waves
worth of gold without factoring in
experience okay so if you're winning
right if the enemy shoves a wave too
quickly for exams for example this can
allow you to take that wave and pull it
really far up your lane and then freeze
and then those minions can kill your
incoming minion wave over and over
several times it can actually net you a
higher gold value than a turret would
like it like a standing gold turret and
not even factoring an XP it also reduces
the amount of options both you have and
your opponent's have on the map because
everything the variables are reduced it
becomes very clear-cut like using
deductive reasoning what can and can't
happen okay um so this is this is one of
the more like recent things that's
happened um what do you mean by freeze
what does freeze me freezes they so for
instance if they had six minions and you
and you had six minions and they sort of
clash they killed your six minions you
take their six minions and you run it up
your lane without killing them yep now
when the next waves come they'll have 12
minions and you'll still have six so
your six minion
we'll die and if you can hold that by
freezing like keeping them at a certain
point and just constantly holding it
there they are forced to come and
eventually break it or they're forced to
do something else on the map okay but if
you're winning and your champions are
stronger and you have more items
obviously they cannot arbitrarily just
teleport anywhere on the map or
they can't just randomly die of a turret
because turrets are still really strong
the champions are still weak you can end
up getting more gold in creating a
larger net difference between you and
the enemy team as well as experience by
just freezing and then obviously you
know okay well you can only go into a
few places so I've had this conversation
with lots of RTS plays players it's
pretty easily accepted but with mobile
players for some reason it's
like flattering and it just doesn't make
any sense
the really weird thing is in the
community some people even even people
with high stature within the community
will say that you can't freeze or it's
not possible but wha
I have so many examples of freezing at
professional play from pro players and
there's also a lot of pro players that
are on this in alignment that freezing
can exist but there are also pro players
that are like no you can't freeze
because we can just do a b c and d and
it's a very frustrating thing because it
it feels very akin to flat earth where i
sort of like the misjudge thing will
never assert that a team can freeze
unless i really think that it's possible
like I'm not just gonna arbitrarily say
odds they should just blanketly freeze
so variables and conditions have to be
met for it to occur as like a
strategical maneuver and there's clear
upside that is related to like economy
an economy management is the thing that
is very common in our TSS but not and
when some not common in MOBA and in in
MOBAs players tend to only think about
their one champion but in RTS is you
think about lots of important champions
in lots of different important locations
and you're forced to make a you know
a major decision on how you're gonna
allocate and do certain things and so
because my first games we're Starcraft 1
Starcraft 2 and whatnot and also playing
card games a call an economy and
resource management and like how long it
takes units to move across the map
timing attacks how much damage they do
how little can you actually have and
still defend these are all RTS things
like like playing risk or monopoly or
lots of board games and I just I want to
blow my brains out when someone
with pretty high stature maybe in the
community will come along and assert
that it's not possible and I feel like
I'm speaking a different language so
then there's the there's the problem
where I can get certain other people to
agree in certain other pro players and I
can also have clear-cut examples playing
against some of the top like regional
teams in the world right videos video
proof tangible evidence things that can
be replicated quantifiable things still
there's just something too
exists for people they'll throw they'll
throw blanket statements Hail Marys like
they'll say that vision is important or
they'll say that champions can just dive
a turret and it's an impossible argument
to really handle verbally or that's how
I feel
Ellis first of all this is way better
for them this is a glimpse you're just
talking about one thing now so this is
easier for me to manage so now these
please don't get to we still get to just
the core issue which is why D why is it
important to you for to you to convince
these people well I feel like it's a
part of my job but also I want well my
jobs to analyze them coach fine
so your your job is to Anna so hold on a
second so analysis you're a coach
well I have Co I mean I still do
freelance coaching for various like LCS
and all AC players so analysis is very
different from convincing people
like why do you feel like you have to
convince people okay so if you were a
scientist and you discovered certain
things but the scientific board says
that you're wrong that can actually
really harm your career potentially it
can call into question your credibility
term then it becomes very frustrating if
you can quantify or replicate the things
that you're talking about like like a
test right like you can you mean that's
how it works in science that you can go
and recreate if you talk about freezing
and how it creates an economic advantage
bar in certain circumstances like no
neutral objectives on the map how does
that affect your career if lots of
people dissent against it some that are
even prolific within the community that
can be really bad because then if I get
labeled as so some people genuinely
think I'm a contrarian I say things just
to disagree dissent against the majority
opinion etc that is very common and then
you tell them no I'm not then I tell
them no you were flat earther
like holy I get really I get really
I think maybe you're familiar with the
term triggered yeah and I sit here in my
house with some of the people I live
with one of them is actually one of the
he might be the highest ranked Western
Terran Starcraft one player still in
stock f1 Nyoka
there's WCG USA finalists a couple of
times whatever in starcraft one anyway
so anyways I talk with him I talked with
max person that I live with and we will
just sit there for two to three hours
and literally play devil's advocate
trying to figure out ways to strangle
these conversations and it's so
insufferable yeah man so look what I
want to point out to you is that the
convincing someone right like so
convincing the scientific board so
you've made it clear
sorry I keep on having false starts with
sentences that's okay my words can't
catch up to what my mind is kind of
thinking about so let me just think for
a second so Ellis I think a big problem
that you run into is that your logic is
good so when we think about you know
when you think about sort of the gold
rush of esports right now and you think
about missed opportunities and
uncertainty about the future your logic
is good right so if if now for the first
time you can Co stream League events
that's not an opportunity you want to
miss out on because like once the field
gets saturated and people like go to
particular streamers like it's hard to
start streaming later there's the
problem is that your logic is good and
when it comes to the the potential
impact of you know being viewed as a
contrary Anor disrespected by other
people in the community how that affects
your standing and how that affects your
professional situation that also the
logic is good not disagreeing with any
of your logic what I'm curious about is
your personal investment right so if I'm
a scientist and I so I mean I I do this
right so I I go to let's say like I have
a prospective collaboration with like
MIT for healthy gamer and studying video
game addiction so I kind of go to some
people we've also had calls with you
know other institutions or organizations
and we actually had a great call with
Ryan a couple of weeks ago so we you
know if I go to someone and I say like
hey I think this is important and they
say no we disagree we don't think it's
important that can be strategically bad
but like I don't have to get bent out of
shape what I'm really curious about is
why you get so personally bent out of
shape like what what about this is
triggering or tilting like as people can
be idiots but what's your personal
investment like flat like so flat
earthers
you know or idiotic I think but growing
up I was called a liar a lot because
there were phases of my life where I did
have to lie a lot because there would be
instances where with my family they
would ask me a question and if I knew
that if I responded truthfully or
honestly it would result in an outburst
or it's something something physically
uncomfortable would occur okay and so as
a means to defuse the situation I would
lie instantly and I would develop ways
to lie instantly and that stuck with me
through preteen as well as teenage life
even so even when I stopped lying once I
felt more safe and secure with my own
identity as well as just knowing how
certain situations weren't gonna go etc
I think there's something about so this
actually goes back to the living in a
glass house recording everything etc I
think that if I present something and
someone just says no it's wrong I feel
like that is very akin to being called a
liar and when it's about a job that I'm
so invested into emotionally and
physically with the amount of time that
I sink into it
it disturbs me on a really pretty deep
emotional level that I think other
people with my same job titles wouldn't
actually understand because this is all
that I do and it's not that I can't
assert like you on an emotional level
what gets disturbed
it blows my mind that how how I don't
know how to answer it there's like a lot
of different images in my head a night I
don't know how to translate them into
words okay yeah I think so let me Alice
I think we're getting somewhere
and I think the basic issue here is that
you're not fighting the individual
battle from today you're fighting a host
every conversation that you have with
people every disagreement that you have
with people about strategy like you said
it makes you feel like a liar right and
so what it's actually Avoca within you
is like all of that stuff so so I think
the reason you're so invested personally
in these conversations which frankly
sounds kind of idiotic right so there's
a there's a saying in Sanskrit we got to
pass a guard Bhagwat or my language and
past I gotta pass what means reading the
Bible to a buffalo and it's like it's
like you're just gonna get frustration
like some situations or the equivalent
of trying to read the Bible to a buffalo
and it's just dumb like it's like if you
try to do it you can try to read as
beautifully and as convincingly as you
want but at the end of the day you're
just talking to a buffalo so they're
just not gonna understand and and what
what I hear are you doing is like trying
really really hard to convince people
and and to me it sounds you know your
your arguments have logic but I don't
think that your need to convince them
even though standing within the
community and stuff is like all
important there's clearly something else
that's driving you because like Flat
Earth earnest and standing in the
community or like completely separate
issues the Flat Earth earnest about the
the ridiculousness of it the perception
of being a liar the sort of living your
life in a glass house
all of these things have nothing to do
with your standing in the community
their adaptations or maladaptation x'
and we can talk about that too like
helping you manage like whatever this
thing is on the inside yes and I think
what happens with you is that when you
get into an argument with someone you're
trying to convince everyone in your past
in that moment and this is kind of weird
and messed up but unfortunately it's
just how our mind works just the rules
of the game you're trying to convince
everyone who thought you were a liar
right like everyone who judged you and
everyone who said this kid is wrong this
kid is crazy this kid is stupid and
you're trying to fight like all of those
battles in that moment because that's
the only way that you can get so much
emotional energy into an individual
conflict because it can't you just can't
leave that bent out of shape arguing
with some noob on a discussion forum
about whether you're strapped like it
just doesn't make sense right and like
that's the condition of the internet so
if we look at like toxicity and anger
and tilting on the internet like do you
really think every guy who gets super
super bent out of shape is like deeply
and personally invested in every single
reddit thread that they posted know it's
like misdirected anger and toxicity and
misjudgment like in the rest of their
world and I see this a lot like the the
more ashamed you are of yourself in the
real world the more important it is for
you to maintain a respectable online
persona because all of their shame like
they use like you know they teach noobs
on the internet like you Smurfs in law
so that you could feel good about
yourself and like generally speaking the
people who Smurfs you know like suck in
life are not confident in themselves in
some way right that's it that's my
personal toxicity towards Smurfs because
I have an issue in it so I say ne suck
at life right but anyway yeah yeah so
that's nice thing you brought that up my
point is that like like you know you're
not just talking to a person there's
like a whole pile of stuff and this goes
back to like bursting at
the scene so like let me just tell you
like just listen to this okay so
stressing out stressed insomnia fear
about the future anxiety it's my whole
life
psychosomatic stuff physical stuff anger
you know flat-earthers you just can't
understand it your whole life is caught
up in this like esports like respect
financial security like this all this
didn't this go I get impostor syndrome a
lot sometimes yeah when I have these
arguments in these conversations and
then so in the first meeting that we had
you you asked if I end up blaming myself
so at the end of this I blame myself
because I think that there's a better
way to attack the arguments and attack
the the problems yeah so but then I
wonder if I'm crazy or something
and you know like so it's it's a loop
yeah absolutely
so Ellis here's my point like when
someone says there are 50 million things
wrong I just don't think that there are
50 million things wrong so one of my
supervisors when I was in med school or
like one of the psychiatrist I was
working with one of the people who
inspired me to go to psychiatry once
told me that if any patient has three
diagnoses they're all wrong so sometimes
like we'd get these patients that have
like had this freaking alphabet of
diagnoses MD DG ad PTSD ad D
you know like it's like just a bunch of
letters and it's like that's not like I
don't think that this person has four
discrete processes that are going on in
their like mind I don't think they have
like four different circuits that are
busted like there's one like link
there's common stuff there's something
that is manifesting his depression
manifesting his anxiety making it
difficult for them to concentrate and
oftentimes it's trauma like traumas like
where all this crap starts and you've
had your fair share and so I think that
when you have all of these like like
issues around you know stressing out
insomnia like I don't think that's the
problem I think the basic problem is
that you've got some stuff from the past
which like acts on the present and you
don't deal with the stuff from the past
so another way to kind of say that is
you said the the first week went well
like earlier like at the very beginning
of this conversation you said yeah I
managed week one well week two is when
the problems started and I wanted to
stop you right there and I was like no
my friend the mistake was in week one
because week one is when you let that
the problem is that the only time
you notice that there's trash to be
emptied is when your trashcan is
overflowing that's what your life looks
like in a nutshell like the problem is
that you're like oh there's like trash
on the floor oh maybe I like oh like
there's that my trashcan is overflowing
so let me just take all of the stuff on
the top that's spilling out and throw
that away and we're gonna leave all the
other trash in the trash can we're just
gonna take all the stuff that's spilling
over the top and we're gonna deal with
that but your problem is in that first
week you're kind of saying like okay I'm
gonna do this I'm gonna crucify myself
for 1/10 hour work weeks because they're
really good opportunities here and then
I'll take a break later and then I'm
gonna go back to crusing find myself
your whole system of managing whatever
it is that you're managing I think is
not working well and that's why it's
like you have stuff that's like seeping
out it's like getting like tilting it at
noobs who don't understand like I don't
I don't I don't get and I mean I do get
but I'm gonna just say like so you know
if you really are
saying the validity of your argument and
someone is too dumb to get it
like that
makes me feel like once you sort of get
that you don't try to convince them
anymore because you realize it's a lost
cause but you get tilted and then like
your body also starts giving out and you
get like allergen and asthma problems
and stuff like that and and so it's it's
just like literally like you're you're
building up I don't know I wish there
was like some word for you know like
DEET like not debuff it's like it you're
just building up like stress it's like
you have a stress if you play darkest
dungeon this is what it is no you guys
play okay so like in darkest dungeon
it's a fantastic game by the way I mean
if you're like in a competitive games
it's not like it's a single-player game
so darkest dungeon it's it's like cool
so you have this party right and like
the idea behind this is like your party
is gonna get screwed so you like your
characters die there's perma death they
like get like they get like Pete they
literally get PTSD and they like can't
fight properly and stuff like that it's
like an amazing kind of game and so what
happens so darkest dungeon introduced a
really cool concept in gaming which I
don't see very much which is we always
have like HP bars and MP bars we have
like resources that we use up and
diminish over time and then when we get
empty we die right like when you run out
of HP is when you die an agency starts
full and you kind of run out of HP so
darkest dungeon actually did the
opposite to where they added this this
stat called stress and as your stress
increases your character like gets
screwed so like you're in this dungeon
where like people are getting like every
time you get a critical every time your
character gets critically hit everyone
in your party gets like like stress so
like stress is like zero out of 200 so
they got like nine points of stress and
then once you win hit 100 they like they
have to make like some kind of check and
if they like hit 100 and they don't make
that check properly
they get like some kind of permanent
debuff they get like a 30% missed chance
or like they lose like you know like
their disease resistance goes down
sometimes they start to panic and they
like won't act
like instead of like attacking they'll
just sit there and their pants and
and like so I think it's a cool game I
love the game but in your case I think
what's happening is you're building too
op stress like there's some meter within
you that is filling up and it's like
your trashcan is filling up filling up
filling up and the only time you notice
it is when it overflows and then what
you try to manage is the overflow it's
like I'm exhausted haven't slept let me
go get a banana bag that's like taking
the five bits of trash from the top of
your trash can and like taking them out
and throwing them away and leaving your
trashcan leftover yeah and the trash can
is filled up in week one like you put
your body like the the other problem is
that you're so resilient and your
willpower is so strong that you can
tolerate like it's like your you know
your Constitution can tolerate rotting
food in your trash can whereas like
other people can't tolerate that so they
clean out their trash in a bizarre way
your capacity your Constitution and your
resilience allow you to propagate
unhealthy situations to the breaking
point and there's something really
bizarre that I see in some people which
is that some people suffer like
consequences you know when they're at 70
percent 50 percent 30 percent and some
people don't bend some people only break
and I think you fall into this category
where like you you can function at a
very high level until your breaking
point and then you just snap yes in the
suit that happens the snaps happen
absolutely man
they know that they happen almost if I
could like pull in some of my roommates
or something to like answer I mean no
I'm not going to I'm just saying the
cycles tend to be about nine weeks and
then there's a very big snap and then
everything goes away and it's like it's
back to zero the snaps are really scary
not like yeah I don't know how to
describe them so yeah so this is
important for people who are watching
too so I want you guys to understand
like
your pattern is not uncommon in fact
when it comes to gamers I think they're
remarkably resilient so I think that
gamers are very good at dealing with
just gigantic piles of like a negative
emotion and other stuff right that's why
we all procrastinate and like don't deal
with our problems and stuff like that
and then like we have this you know it's
like you've got this basement that's
just full of crap and in your case I I
just don't think that your life is gonna
continue to be sustainable and the
challenge the challenge is that none of
your logic is wrong right like so from a
career standpoint it may be a good idea
to scream LCS it may be a good idea to
work 110 hours a week but I think that
working 110 hours a week and at the same
time spending half of your energy
tilting it noobs like you just don't
have the energy to tilt at news we've
not another working 110 hours a week I I
think um this most recent leak Saturday
my coke asterisms Brendan Valdez
I remember before set to started I was
actually welling up and I sort of like
laugh to him and I said I'm just gonna
I'm gonna have a breakdown and he looked
at me like what's wrong and I said I
don't know and I started
panicking because usually when I'm in a
work mode I won't have a breakdown or I
won't have like a snap but five minutes
before the cast went live I was welling
up my legs were shaking and I'm like
holy I'm just gonna start crying
and I was just feeling so many
emotions managed to get together
cast the second series went home and
it went right to sleep but that
was a very unsettling thing but
sometimes there's just moments where all
I want to do is cry and scream and I
just want everything to stop
so and we agree with you what do you do
then LS when you wanna throw in
everything so you do pride scream oh
yeah sometimes and I ask I ask roommates
to like leave the house and stuff
and it's like literally something
happens like a drama or like you
know something to watch on Netflix I
literally just have an emotional
breakdown and I'm like okay I'm reset as
crazy is that sound like let's
do it again yeah man yeah so now we're
gonna talk about we're gonna talk about
adaptive and maladaptive okay so we I'm
glad you're able to share all this stuff
hopefully you know the noobs won't
attack you for your freezing strategy
because of what you're saying here today
and and so well that's just so I want I
want people to understand this too so I
so your body your mind and your brain
does the best that it can with the crap
that you throw at it right like that's
just how like and so what happens is as
we deal with emotions like we're not
really taught this stuff which is a huge
huge problem like we are not really
taught how to deal with emotions we're
not really taught like how our mind
works we're not really taught this stuff
so our body just comes up and we come up
with the best solutions that we can
which are sort of adaptive and
maladaptive its adaptive because if we
think about like an adaptive you know
evolutionary trait it's something that
allows us to succeed in a particular
environment and in your case like I
think this sort of reset breakdown
whatever you have every nine weeks is
like it's actually like helps you
succeed like you like because you just
you know you have all these emotions
that kind of build up build up build up
you're like okay five minutes before
cast im Welling up I'm about to break
down okay like let me just let me shove
like this is like when you take your
hands and you like shove the trash you
pack the trash in your trashcan you pack
it down so that you can put more trash
in there we're gonna pack it down we're
gonna pack it down more put more
they're more more trash in there and
then soot like that's the strategy right
and then every once in a while like what
happens is your trash can starts to
bulge and then it starts to ferment and
it produces acid and then like one day
like just your trash can just breaks and
like falls apart and there's crap all
over you know your your kitchen and then
you scoop it all up and you clean it all
out and then and then you go and you get
yourself another you know paper trashcan
and then you you put it there and it's
the same trashcan that used last time
you're not gonna get a metal one you can
use the same one get yourself a trash
bag money you put it in and then and
then you just you start shoving stuff in
there again so but that works for you
right so like this is the crazy thing
when we think about all of this stuff
that you're describing insomnia you know
anxiety anger tilting break down it's
like we look at that and we say like oh
this must be mental illness incorrect
this is your system of adaptation
there's also something very important to
understand our mind does the best that
it can and so even situations like
anxiety is it like an illness sure but
in a lot of experience that I've seen
anxiety serves a very very important
mechanism
so usually anxiety is protective
so anxiety keeps us from doing the
things that are gonna make us like look
and feel dumb right like it protects
other people from ridiculing us if you
really stop and think about it like
that's what it's doing so anxiety is a
way that we can protect ourselves from
being like judged and viewed as idiots
so if we really look at all of this
stuff I mean not all of mental illness
because I don't think for example
schizophrenia has an adaptive mechanism
but in your case you know you have all
this stuff which people can like say is
like you know patterns of mind and it's
like actually like that's how you
function cuz you you can work a hundred
ten hours a week and then have a
breakdown reset and then it's back back
to working 110 now I think I think what
we've got to figure out is like do you
want to continue this are you happy with
where you are or do you want to change
I want to well I mean it goes it goes
back to what I what I said well okay I
guess I don't know how you're asking the
question do you want do you want to
continue doing what I'm doing or yeah
like like what am i my work and stuff do
you want something to change about your
life are you happy with things
continuing at their current track oh
Jesus no I yeah obvious
obviously in in private I always look
for ways that I think I think I
mentioned this and the first time that
we spoke look for ways to fix or change
something however difficult it is so
that this cycle stops breaking the cycle
is like what do you want to change order
I want the cycle to stop what is this
like the cycle is somehow convincing
myself to go beyond the breaking point
you know constantly working through
whatever right now I am in the best I'm
financially and just work wise and
everything I'm in the best place I've
ever been like I'm I'm at a peak right
now maybe it's gonna even keep going up
etc and yet I have like a feeling that
the only way that I can describe it is
homelessness and it is a very it is a
very dark feeling obviously it's very
devoid of anything and it feels so empty
and scary right and it's like sometimes
I'll have a conversation with someone
and they'll just remind me of so many
things and then it sort of helps
alleviate the the feeling and stuff
obviously I want that feeling to go away
because I think that that feeling helps
reinforce the cycle and it helps
reinforce so I need to figure out a way
to get my brain to accept and be content
with everything as it is right now
without feeling over panicked anxious
about everything and feeling like I'm in
a constant like fear of missing out if
that makes sense yeah while
simultaneously feeling empty so you said
the feeling is homelessness it feels
like homelessness okay
I wait to put it yeah so Ellis I think
at some point okay now we get to the you
know psychoanalytic kind of stuff so
thank you so much for for saying that I
I don't know what you know I don't know
what the perception of people who are
watching is I feel like we've talked
about a lot of stuff kind of tied stuff
together but I think we're like at a
really good spot now
Gillies I mean I am in terms of I think
there's yeah you need to take a minute I
I have had an anxiety no no I've had
anxiety all week this is um like in an
unhealthy kind of way this is the best
I've been breathing in like a week
so I actually thought it was asthma so
like just before we started this call
actually I took my I took my albuterol
and my advair yeah and just so that
there wouldn't be any breathing
difficulties whatever but now I'm
realizing that it's not as m''e and that
there was just a shitload of
anxiety going on because I can breathe
really well right now
so odd and it feels like you know the
person sitting on me just sort of got up
so the conversations been helpful in
that regard all right but uh
sucks man holy
I can breathe it right now it's been a
while you know it's coming back though
coming back you mean the elephant is
starting the fat guy sitting on you just
suckin the whale back that that whale
who plays lul and does it agree with the
idea of freezing he says you just need
money well it's just one it's all it's
all one guy this is the thing Ellis it's
all one guys like seriously when you
tilt on them it's like so this is the
thing the body and mind are linked right
so when you say oh I didn't I didn't I
realize it's not asthma I actually
disagree so now we come to psychosomatic
right
this is making me have asthma I the two
are linked it's like your body and mind
are linked so anxiety makes asthma worse
so like so the the conditions that are
autoimmune are significantly altered by
your mental state so rheumatoid
arthritis things like chronic Lyme
disease asthma IBS all autoimmune
conditions are heavily influenced by the
mind and what's happening is when that
when your trashcan is overflowing you
feel it in terms of emotions but it's
also gonna manifest as asthma okay so
this is important I don't want you to
think because a lot of people think that
psychosomatic means all in your head I
don't think the asthma is all in your
head I think the only way that your body
knows how to process the stress it's
like your body is starting to give out
right like well you've got five lanes
and League and if you're under pressure
sometimes one of the one of the your
champions is gonna give out so asthma is
one way of you giving out the breakdown
is another way of you get giving out you
know yelling at noobs is a third way to
for you to break when those are all
signs of like fracturing right that's
the trash can overflowing and so the
cool thing is that when you talk like
this and you start to get some sense and
like why do you think you feel better
now like what have we done um I don't
know I I think just having a
conversation with someone helps a lot
because I don't actually get to UM I
don't have to talk about cuz usually um
some people that I'll talk to about
these very things they'll just it's not
really a conversation it's like I don't
know how to describe it's sort of like a
I don't know how to describe it okay so
actually I'll tell you the way that I
describe it to some of my roommates I am
a dog that everyone wants to be around
until I start barking and then when I
start barking they want to lock me in a
room and until the barking stops they
don't want to treat the barking or why
is the dog barking so that's that that's
the conversation with your teacher
that that's a similar conversation that
that's how I feel yeah I feel like a
barking dog and you know what actually
cares what yeah yeah absolutely right so
that sounds way closer to me to this
this thing with your teacher when she
was like why is this kid having
behavioral problems and this is the
problem LS is that like deep down I
think your sense of identity that I'm
gonna stop okay let's go back to the
sources actually that while I am
enamored with my ability to formulate
and understand people I don't know how
helpful that's gonna be um so let's go
back to why does this help like how does
this work we're just talking um there's
something humane about it okay
whereas most times I think when I talk
to people I am the idea or the
personification of my character within
the eSports community sure and that I'm
not me and that my problems are only a
detriment to whoever I'm talking to and
it we move better if I go back to just
being LS who they need me to be yeah
right so I was saying deep down your
identity dot dot dot so we'll come back
to that so good you went there so I
didn't need to go there but so I want to
understand from a mechanistic so let's
let's think about mechanism okay so
let's pretend we're playing an RTS and
the RTS is talking to LS on stream with
dr. k and and we noticed something which
is that like LS is breathing is improved
he feels better what what did we if we
go back and we watch the replay like
what's the mechanism tell me like how is
this happening using any of the language
or any of the imagery that we've talked
about today like how is this helping you
like what's happening I think a lot of
it is it's helping me feel or I don't
know if the phrase is less crazy but it
feels it's sort of like when no one
wants to listen to you or believe or
talk about any of the things that you're
saying but then you have a conversation
with someone that's just willing
it's sort of like a it's sort of
like when when someone says I don't even
know again I'm just seeing images I
don't can you dislike you know one of
the images is a girl breaking down and
like a diner she's in a booth and she's
just talking to a waitress and she just
starts crying and says finally I know
that sounds really weird I I think in a
lot of describe I just see lots of
images and I try to put them into words
I think that was very illustrative thank
you so it just it it it feels like holy
you know like everyone just doesn't
care or want to listen to her and then
finally the waitress or something is
just willing to talk and it's just so
overwhelming that it's like a
floodgate you know someone's you know
yeah pretty much that that that's the
image that I think is the strong that's
a beautiful image thanks I don't know
what it comes from yeah it's raining in
the image got that go absolutely I think
it's I could have you know yeah I think
raining makes sense to me you know it's
it's I think it's a really good
description of your life in a lot of
ways so I think I think twitch chat has
figured it out so twitch chat knows what
we're doing
so twitch chat do you guys know how this
is helping so I've seen it it pop up a
couple of times like what are we doing
with him yes you look at that they say
are you on game can I tell you something
yeah there's there's a couple of people
in chat right now and I don't know this
tilts me tells me out of my mind
what is pathetic fallacy mean do you
know what the they might be saying I
don't know what that means I don't know
either so I need to know okay good so
we'll get to that we'll get to that okay
yeah okay so so what what did so aside
from the few person sad pathetic fallacy
because I don't even know what it's
called and what what are the other
people in your chat saying
because my cat has it figured out so I
don't know if it's just because by the
way well I'm not streaming i'm not
streaming oh you're not suing okay no I
know I don't shrimp when I do this okay
I would rather direct traffic so I'm
really impressed with like like cuz
twitch at dude like these guys learn and
girls and other other things you know so
I think their overwhelming sense is that
you're taking out the trash okay
oh when we're having yeah make sense
right and so that's how this works right
so it's it's not when you kind of think
about like what's the effect of this
conversation this is going to help you
in the next week because you've managed
and emptied out some of that trash so as
you build that stress in that trash
you've got to manage it by talking about
it so seeing a therapist I don't know
exactly what you know what therapy is
like in South Korea but you know talking
to someone can certainly help I think
the other thing that's happening is that
we're helping you be and so this is the
advantage of therapy by the way right so
like we all have emotions and stuff like
our trash can fills up throughout the
day and I'll teach you a meditation
technique that's kind of about unwinding
at the end of today so remind me to
teach you that the other thing so we
kind of build up emotions and like
negative experiences feelings and stuff
like that and then we need some place to
take out the trash so if you take out
the trash the cool thing LS is that I
think all of this stuff will get better
so I think your asthma will get better
your insomnia will get better your your
anxiety will get better it's not gonna
happen overnight and needs to happen on
a regular basis because you have a lot
of trash filled up like what you've been
doing is instead of a trash can you
actually have a basement where you throw
all your trash and so for years and
years and years you have a basement
that's just filled up the other thing LS
that I think you kind of really struggle
with and maybe we can talk about this
next time
is I think your sense of identity is
like all warped so I think part of this
whole glass house thing you try to be
like super transparent but I think deep
down there's sense of emptiness I don't
know if you really know who you are
I think that you're not confident you're
not confident in yourself so I think a
lot of your uncertainty has to do with
you know you don't know that you're
gonna land on your feet and and knowing
that you're gonna land on your feet
tends to come from like a good sense of
confidence and who you are as a person
like being secure within yourself and I
think we see other signs of sort of like
a kind of a shaky identity which is that
you know the opinions of others start to
influence you way more like so if I have
a clear sense of who I am and like the
world calls me an idiot like if I Know
Who I am I'm gonna be able to protect
myself from that because I know it's
kind of like you know the whole path I
gotta Padma thing like if I know that
other people are idiots and that my
strategy is a good one like I don't have
to try to convince them of anything like
if they're too dumb to realize it like
fine I'm just gonna own them harder and
harder and harder and the people who
understand it will like improve and the
people who don't want to accept me like
they're just gonna like they're gonna
suck they're gonna keep on losing MMR or
rank or whatever but in your case I
think there's something about needing to
prove yourself to other people and
imposter syndrome streaming all this
stuff gets exacerbated because you've
become this persona but essentially like
the person who needs to prove themselves
is the person who like isn't confident
in themself and so I think we've got to
go back to like you know when you like
like who are you really like who is ls
and what is a less capable of like who
are you yeah I'm curious I think yeah
um I don't know actually
yeah this goes back to what I said in
the first conversation I don't really
have a purpose but because this is all
that I've done I feel like my only
purpose is helping others it sounds so
fun
it sounds so stupid to say like
appreciate strategy more inside of video
games but I think that strategy in
itself is art and I think that there is
a lot of correlations or things that can
show themselves in other areas of life
that you can derive from strategy games
no no see that's beautiful that is your
purpose I think so so but this is this
is the crazy thing right like so despite
having such a pure purpose that no one
like people don't say that kind of thing
man so like that is a sign of like
that's actually true purpose like you
love strategy games you love learning
strategy you love applying to strategy a
strategy to like other parts of your
life you love talking about strategy
games that's what you're on this earth
to do my friend the question is why is
it that you can't just accept that right
like so there's something within you
that like like I think you've actually
got your purpose figured out I think
your problem is like you don't know who
you are
so when you say like my purpose is to
explore strategy to its fullest extent
because I think it's amazing the second
half of that sentence is fine I think my
I think where you fall short is with the
first word which is my and you don't
know who you are but I think what you're
doing is awesome I think like you love
strategy you love eSports you love
gaming and if that's what you want to
spend your life doing that I say go for
it man and and see what happens is like
yeah that there's more stuff I want to
do down the line that I need to grow
bigger in order to do like in terms of
like setting up networks and other stuff
go like whatever
okay I find a lot of probably very odd
off things pretty or beautiful or
exciting like art and stuff I'm sorry
you said odd off yeah like on like like
things that maybe most people wouldn't I
don't know I guess that's just my
opinion yeah so so I I think going
forward we've got to do some you know
work on like who you are but I think a
couple of concrete things do you have
any questions by the way so I'm gonna
kind of try to summarize because we've
been at this for a little while now okay
does this feel like a stopping point to
you yeah sure I mean I I don't really do
anything so I don't like I don't I think
after whenever I was gonna be done
talking with you I was gonna watch the
new Walking Dead episode and then
probably sleep okay so I don't really
have a schedule right now okay okay yeah
okay so um so let me let me try to just
summarize a couple of things okay so
first of all I'm glad you came on again
and I've thoroughly enjoyed talking to
you I think unless you are just a really
awesome dude and I think that you know
underneath all the anxiety and insomnia
and all that other kind of crap like I
love to hear that you are an artist when
it comes to strategy like you'll love
and appreciate strategy like art because
I think that's we need people like you
man
because the problem is that like the
rest of the world doesn't take the
gaming community seriously they don't
they don't understand that you can have
a beautiful work of art that is like
like you know a book you can have a
beautiful work of art that is a movie
and you can have a beautiful work of art
that is a video game like for many many
years when people ask me what kind of
music I like I would say instrumental
music but what I really meant is in my
free time I listen to like soundtracks
from video games that's what that's what
I listed to I listen to Chrono Trigger
divinity original sin usually
single-player RPGs you know like that's
what I listen to like sometimes some OC
remix from Street Fighter 2 and some
old-school stuff
um when my two-year-old like when she
was young I used to sing her the tearin
theme from Starcraft wanted to put her
to sleep oh man it's just nuts but like
that's what she loves the Terran theme
and and like that's out like that's her
- lullaby like you know cuz like it's
it's like 2:00 in the morning she's not
falling asleep I've sung everything that
I know how to sing and I just try to
think about okay what can I sing for 30
minutes without getting bored I won best
baby lullaby ever right nice it turns to
get theme it's a great thing yeah yeah
it's a really only one you can kind of
like sing to a kid you know like you
can't really do that with desert music
no so I I think it's awesome that like
you really are devoted to strategy I
think you know what your purpose is I
think the problem is that you've
developed some strategies to help you
succeed in your goals but that those
strategies are actually maladaptive they
work but they're not ideal and the basic
gist of it is that like you know whether
we talk about asthma or stress or
insomnia anxiety falling apart breaking
apart all that stuff is this I mean it's
not the same there's you know it's
complicated and there are all kinds of
stuff going on but I think basically
like your problem is that you're not
emptying the trash and it doesn't take a
whole lot so I don't think like you need
a spa day once a week I think you need
to you know it sounds like you're eating
well you hydrate really well that's
really great it sounds like you need
some kind of emotional support so I
don't know what that looks like if you
have you know therapists or something
like that I don't know well I'm gonna
have to think about that but I think on
some level it doesn't you have to be
necessarily talking to someone but like
processing your emotions so now I'd like
to teach you a meditation technique
around that so we'll stop after the
meditation technique but a couple of
other things so going for it I think the
big issue here is that somewhere along
the way you aren't even though you know
what you like and you know what it is
due to fear of judgment or something
like that like there's fear of judgment
there's not being taken seriously for
whatever reason you cannot be confident
in the person that you are
can't be comfortable in the person that
you are even though you know you want to
do a lot of stuff and you want to expand
your network you're afraid about your
future right whereas like when you say
things like this it actually makes me
think your future is gonna be fine man
because a lot of people like
transitioning out of eSports into other
stuff is something that people are
getting better and better at it's
becoming more of an industry and you're
actually thinking about it like I'm
confident that you're gonna do well
actually but for whatever reason your
sense of identity hasn't formed well so
I think that's something overall like I
think we so I'm happy to do this with
you but what what you really need to do
is try to figure out like when did you
go off track like when did you lose
confidence in the person that you are
when did you fundamentally like when did
the default become failure instead of
success
because I think once I started being
more aware of my my age okay so that is
a trash can that needs to be emptied the
last thing that I'll kind of share with
you before meditation is that I want you
to understand that like when you get
tilted or involved with like like that
each individual interaction and this is
for people at home to like you're not
just dealing with that interaction your
history in the emotional weight from the
past actually like plays into that
interaction so if you feel like
uncomfortable about your appearance or
you're afraid about dating or something
like that like all of those anxieties
from the past and like that like lack of
confidence and like fear that you're
gonna be rejected or unlovable like all
that crap enters your mind and actually
like affects you when you ask someone
that you're attracted to out and so you
got to deal with all that crap from the
past and then you'll be free from it and
your life is gonna feel way easier
my goal for uls is to feel like get that
that Elephant Man off your chest like
that's what we should do right and then
if you live life I think you're gonna be
you're gonna be good okay
Todd's questions I'm ready for
meditation yeah sure okay so sit up
straight I don't know if my chair hold
on okay like fully straight what yeah
yeah totally straight back straight okay
okay okay
let your shoulders relax a little bit so
spine is different from shoulders no I
know yeah
try to bring your elbows weird you don't
know what I thought you just don't want
to relax yeah that's really weird so
they're just tense it's actually I I
think this is this is just I don't want
to describe my legs are tapping right
now yeah like I think this is just my
body is just very tense right now yeah
okay so if you can't yeah so so what
what I want you to try to do is let your
arms hang
let let gravity pull your arms down as
low as low as they'll go
I have arm rests okay so scoot scoot
scoot forward to the edge of your chair
yeah okay sure
right yeah okay okay and then now now
let your shoulders hang good better so I
want you to do this literally that yep
and now put your palms in front of you
like like let them rest in your lap yeah
okay let your shoulders relax
good okay trying yeah just let them fall
to the ground right so this is this is
tense this is like straight then just
let them down push them down yeah good
now close your eyes and now I'm gonna
walk you through a particular set I'm
gonna give you some instruction on yeah
what sorry well I I don't like closing
my yeah sorry you don't like closing
your eyes yeah
what don't you like about closing your
eyes
feel vulnerable I don't know I don't
know um you feel unsafe something uh not
unsafe there's something unsettling
about it not being pure black like I
have a you know the things that go over
hmm just sleep yeah I've used those okay
yeah I have to use those and whenever I
try to de-stress like on my own I have
to use that I can't just close my eyes
okay
but yeah I don't I don't know why okay
so try closing your eyes
mm-hmm okay so so I feel like the the
technique for you today is actually not
our technique it's just relax your
shoulders and close your eyes that's
what we're going to start but let's
let's try to give something for people
at home so this is what I want you to do
I'm gonna teach you kind of an unwind by
the way do you feel good in the morning
uh depends what's the first thing I see
on my phone if I see that there's a new
reddit thread or if I see there's tweets
that make me want to jump off my balcony
and you know I mean okay it affects
other morning we'll go okay okay so it
sounds like but in the morning before
how often do you check your how quickly
do you check your phone after you wake
up instantly so that needs slightly
under my pillow that needs to stop Ellis
okay how do we get that okay so open
your eyes for a second so I know I'm
supposed to teach meditation right now
and I've got to go in like 15 minutes
but this this okay so this needs to stop
okay so when it comes to emptying out
your trash can so talking with other
people meditating you got to put your
phone somewhere else and you got to give
yourself like like half an hour or 45
minutes before you check your phone or
before you check reddit how do we how do
we make that happen um I feel like
suffocating if I don't know what's going
on as soon as I wake up
I always feels like okay so there's a
lot of people that will message me like
with them listening whether it be
players that'll message me on discord or
though the M me or other people I feel
like because I'm operating on different
time zones that I need to try to reply
as soon as I can and so like I know that
if I wake up at 9 a.m.
how do you how often do you shower every
36 hours usually okay so when you all
depending on castes so if I'm casting I
shower every single day because they use
hairspray and other stuff and I get
tilted but yeah okay so so like I would
say like when you wake up do you shower
it usually at night or in the morning
depends what I'm doing the next day okay
so I you got to figure something out to
avoid avoid your phone for 30 minutes
okay when you wake up like I was gonna
say an hour but like you got it like eat
or or you know do something like go
outside go for a walk like do whatever
you want to just no phone for 30 minutes
you got to make that really even go out
the corona though okay looks like a void
public place yeah I don't know a lot of
places are out me or close it sucks yeah
so so practically though I want you to
think about it this way LS the more time
that your mind spends in that space of
stress and the more stress you're gonna
feel so you need to give your line you
need to learn how to break away from
that space for just a little while and
no wonder you have no idea who you are
because like you're never alone like
Netflix huh what if I watch Netflix
Netflix is fine just not on your phone
okay
okay so you can watch on your computer
but like no checking no social media for
30 minutes after you wake up you can
watch Netflix you can lay in bed you can
meditate you can you know you can do
whatever you want to but just no social
media for 30 minutes eat something yeah
take a dump be honest I think usually
things week
like discord calls or phone call or
alarm okay so fine to alarm but like
mute your discord when you go to sleep
okay let's just talk about like Here I
am trying to come up with all these
complicated like psychoanalytic
formulations for you and it's just like
yeah just stay away from your phone for
like half an hour just see what it does
to your mindset okay okay because you're
starting the day off like what you're
doing is you're giving your adrenaline
system a big kick as soon as you wake up
like you don't need coffee
it's like oh if that's like you
wake up you check your phone you're like
oh that's not coffee that's the
first thing I do okay fine so have
coffee and enjoy it and just don't look
at your phone there are these things
it's kind of weird like before you know
gaming and computers they used to like
instead of Reddit they would like take
like a bunch of reddit pages and they
would like put them together on paper
and they would like binders dinner huh
newspaper what a book no like yeah yeah
it's a book a book you've read so so you
know sometimes it's kind of like a it's
like reddit threads that are all like
linked to each other it's actually
really cool and it's like they're all
like linked together so it's kind of
like if you were to like read like you
know it's kind of like a vlog like all
of them are related but it's like it's
like one story so check one of those out
you know anyway so enough of me being an
ass seriously spend a half an hour in
the morning away from your phone okay so
now I'm going to teach you guys the
technique okay so close your eyes and
what I want you to do so you're in the
hand position yeah yeah okay so what I
want you to do is I want you to think
about the kind of like the last thing
that happened before we started talking
and I want you to think about any
emotions that you felt with that event
okay and then I want you to go to the
thing before so so basically what you
want to do before you go to bed at night
is you can do this technique and
throughout the day what's what's so
funny the dark humor in me the thing I
did before this
it was there was a fiora and she's a
dirty inter do you ever get someone that
runs it down in your game and dota huh
they just intentionally feed yeah yeah
yeah they just they make it so you can't
play well that what's the thing before
this that actually made me end my stream
and the thing before her was a different
dirty inter okay
good so now we're getting somewhere okay
good Alice okay so good so so okay so
close your eyes I want to go back to
those exactly so what I want you to do
is acknowledge the emotions that you
felt without getting into it okay you
can laugh it's okay so like yeah like so
you said like I had a dirty fiora or
whatever and and she fed and then like I
was super pissed off and tilted and I
decided to quit my stream and now go to
the game before and so what was the
situation there like acknowledge to the
situation oh I felt super tilted yeah
right and then what happened before yeah
I think we opened an 8-minute served
like 10 minutes yeah what does that mean
you know opening is everyone just let's
the enemy push okay so I want you to
continue going backwards in time mm-hm
and try to get like to a pretty small
resolution so I'll give you an example
of my routine like before you know like
like when I do this meditation before
bad so I usually do it before bed
so like before I got into bed I changed
my clothes before I changed my clothes I
brushed my teeth before I brush my teeth
I brushed my kids teeth before I brush
their teeth my little kid had taken the
cap off of the toothpaste and was eating
toothpaste again and I got pissed off at
her because she really needs to stop
eating toothpaste and and then I had to
fight with her about you know she wanted
to open the toothpaste and she wanted to
do it herself and and I got kind of
frustrated with that and before that I
changed them into pajamas and before I
changed them into pajamas we were like
doing like a pillow fight dance party
kind of thing and then that was a lot of
fun and then before that I
ate dinner at 10 o'clock at night
because I didn't get a chance to eat
until then and then before that I did
this and then I did this and this is how
I felt then and with dinner like I
really enjoyed the food because it was
healthy but I really wanted like a slice
of pepperoni pizza cuz that's just like
fatty and delicious and before that I
did this and I felt like this so you
just kind of track back so the thing a
couple of important things to remember
one is that you don't want to dive into
anything okay so I noticed that when you
started recalling the game like you
became pretty attached to the game and
you dived into those feelings quickly so
you want to acknowledge them and then
move back acknowledge move back
acknowledge move back and try to go all
the way back to when you started your
day and how you felt the moment you woke
up I was tilted first thing in the
morning
yeah okay I remember I yeah so try to
try to catch every major event of your
day and even small event so like
generally speaking this meditation takes
about five to ten minutes okay so but I
think you've got a handle on it and then
and so hopefully what this will do is
like empty out your trash a little bit
okay cuz you're trying to unwind as you
go through the day you wind up emotions
you have all this stuff that kind of
builds up and the our goal is to help
you like kind of unwind and start the
day on peaceful but apparently you start
the day off tilt like you woke up and
you were tilted yeah like you opened
your eyes and like you were tilted about
what um I ran over to the door to see if
max was awake and I walked out and I
said so I think I just said to him so
what the are we gonna do and I was
tilted about an argument that I had
yesterday
exactly him with someone nice so you
need to process that from the day before
using a technique like this so that you
don't wake up in the morning tilt it you
see how like it's all like like it's
just a cycle like it's oh it's a ball
that's rolling downhill it's like a
little snow it's a snowflake that's
becoming a snowball which is becoming a
novel
and so you've got to deal with your
emotions from the day before so that you
start the day off like you're already
encumbered
yeah I'm pretty often starting the day
off and I wake up tilton okay yeah so
then you gotta get so so process that
stuff the day before as best as you can
using this technique okay okay
dots or questions before we wrap up for
the day no okay strong work man very a
pleasure as always
once again yeah yes man get some sleep
go to sleep man
no I gotta I gotta watch the new walking
bed I only watch it for Jeffrey Dean
Morgan okay I don't know who that is
what I think it's a pretty famous actor
ah look man he's lazy
do you ever watch The Walking Dead yeah
I've seen like the first three seasons
for okay he's negan if you know
that let me know don't leave me one
second Jeffrey Dean Morgan what famous
movies 2cn uh he's in supernatural he's
in Grey's Anatomy he's in PS I love you
I know this guy you know he's an act I
mean not personally he is just so low
carrying a show at this point oh wow
okay yeah so he's the only reason I
still watch okay cool
well he's a villain turned Jesus you're
killing me man
now you're gonna tell me I'll let you
man okay all right take care of and
good luck all right all right bye okay
thanks so much bye
all right chat see now see now you now
I've made a big big mistake because now
what I've done is tell chat that I don't
like spoilers and now chat knows my my
soft soft underbelly
and they're gonna spoil everything on
the universe so I can't read chat
anymore okay so I'm curious how
applicable was what we were talking
about like did did you guys like did
y'all resonate with anything that we
were talking about with LS okay
I wasn't sure cuz he had so many things
going on I wasn't quite sure like hooter
like yeah
and yeah man sometimes I try to make
things a little bit more applicable but
in LSE's case there's just a lot
yeah the trash can part so that's
applicable to everyone right so I think
I think I want you guys to like really
think about this for a second you know
if you have a bad day if you guys
watched crucifix stream that's a good
example of this where he's a guy who
would like get a job and then after one
week he would get frustrated and walk
out the thing about like the the issue
is usually not the terminal cause so if
we think about like in medicine if we
think about cancer right cancer doesn't
start with like when you notice like a
lump like cancer starts with risk
factors so if you you know lung cancer
like if someone has lung cancer like
that starts with with smoking usually or
if someone has colon cancer that can
start with diet or low fiber or things
like that so you guys really have to
think about the risk factors that lead
up to you know how you're managing
things before you actually see what the
problem is
if you feel horrible every time you wake
up then you should start by doing this
technique the night before